do not be envious of evil men nor desire
do not be envious of evil men nor desire to be with them for their heart devises
to be with them for their heart devises
to be with them for their heart devises violence and their lips talk of
violence and their lips talk of
violence and their lips talk of troublemaking through wisdom a house is
troublemaking through wisdom a house is
troublemaking through wisdom a house is built and by understanding it is
built and by understanding it is
built and by understanding it is established by knowledge the rooms are
established by knowledge the rooms are
established by knowledge the rooms are filled with old precious and pleasant
filled with old precious and pleasant
filled with old precious and pleasant riches a wise man is strong yes
riches a wise man is strong yes
riches a wise man is strong yes a man of knowledge increases strength
a man of knowledge increases strength
a man of knowledge increases strength for by wise counsel you will wage your
for by wise counsel you will wage your
for by wise counsel you will wage your own war and in a multitude of counselors
own war and in a multitude of counselors
own war and in a multitude of counselors there is safety wisdom is too lofty for
there is safety wisdom is too lofty for
there is safety wisdom is too lofty for a fool he does not open his mouth in the
a fool he does not open his mouth in the
a fool he does not open his mouth in the gate he who plots to do evil will be
gate he who plots to do evil will be
gate he who plots to do evil will be called a schemer the devising of
called a schemer the devising of
called a schemer the devising of foolishness is sin and the scoffer is an
foolishness is sin and the scoffer is an
foolishness is sin and the scoffer is an abomination to men if you faint in the
abomination to men if you faint in the
abomination to men if you faint in the day of adversity your strength is small
deliver those who are drawn toward death
deliver those who are drawn toward death and hold back those stumbling to the
and hold back those stumbling to the
and hold back those stumbling to the slaughter if you say surely we did not
slaughter if you say surely we did not
slaughter if you say surely we did not know this does not he who weighs the
know this does not he who weighs the
know this does not he who weighs the hearts considerate he who keeps your
hearts considerate he who keeps your
hearts considerate he who keeps your soul does he not know it and will he not
soul does he not know it and will he not
soul does he not know it and will he not render to each man according to his
render to each man according to his
render to each man according to his deeds my son eat honey because it is
deeds my son eat honey because it is
deeds my son eat honey because it is good and the honeycomb which is sweet to
good and the honeycomb which is sweet to
good and the honeycomb which is sweet to your taste so shall the knowledge of
your taste so shall the knowledge of
your taste so shall the knowledge of wisdom be to your soul
wisdom be to your soul
wisdom be to your soul if you have found it there is a prospect
if you have found it there is a prospect
if you have found it there is a prospect and your hope will not be cut off do not
and your hope will not be cut off do not
and your hope will not be cut off do not lie in wait a wicked man against the
lie in wait a wicked man against the
lie in wait a wicked man against the dwelling of the righteous do not plunder
dwelling of the righteous do not plunder
dwelling of the righteous do not plunder his resting place for a righteous man
his resting place for a righteous man
his resting place for a righteous man may fall seven times and rise again but
may fall seven times and rise again but
may fall seven times and rise again but the wicked shall fall by calamity do not
the wicked shall fall by calamity do not
the wicked shall fall by calamity do not rejoice when your enemy Falls and do not
rejoice when your enemy Falls and do not
rejoice when your enemy Falls and do not let your heart be glad when he stumbles
let your heart be glad when he stumbles
let your heart be glad when he stumbles lest the Lord see it and it displeased
lest the Lord see it and it displeased
lest the Lord see it and it displeased him and he turn away his wrath from him
him and he turn away his wrath from him
him and he turn away his wrath from him do not fret because of evildoers nor be
do not fret because of evildoers nor be
do not fret because of evildoers nor be envious of the wicked for there will be
envious of the wicked for there will be
envious of the wicked for there will be no prospect for the evil man the lamp of
no prospect for the evil man the lamp of
no prospect for the evil man the lamp of the wicked will be put out
my son fear the Lord and the king do not
my son fear the Lord and the king do not associate with those given to change for
associate with those given to change for
associate with those given to change for their calamity will rise suddenly and
their calamity will rise suddenly and
their calamity will rise suddenly and who knows the ruin those two can bring
who knows the ruin those two can bring
who knows the ruin those two can bring these things also belong to the wise it
these things also belong to the wise it
these things also belong to the wise it is not good to show partiality in
is not good to show partiality in
is not good to show partiality in judgment he who says to the wicked you
judgment he who says to the wicked you
judgment he who says to the wicked you are righteous him the people will curse
are righteous him the people will curse
are righteous him the people will curse nations will abhor him but those who
nations will abhor him but those who
nations will abhor him but those who rebuke the wicked will have delight and
rebuke the wicked will have delight and
rebuke the wicked will have delight and a good blessing will come upon them he
a good blessing will come upon them he
a good blessing will come upon them he who gives a right answer kisses the lips
prepare your outside work make it fit
prepare your outside work make it fit for yourself in the field and afterward
for yourself in the field and afterward
for yourself in the field and afterward build your house do not be a witness
build your house do not be a witness
build your house do not be a witness against your neighbor without cause for
against your neighbor without cause for
against your neighbor without cause for would you deceive with your lips do not
would you deceive with your lips do not
would you deceive with your lips do not say I will do to him just as he has done
say I will do to him just as he has done
say I will do to him just as he has done to me I will render to the man according
to me I will render to the man according
to me I will render to the man according to his work I went by the field of the
to his work I went by the field of the
to his work I went by the field of the lazy man and by the vineyard of the man
lazy man and by the vineyard of the man
lazy man and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding and there it was
devoid of understanding and there it was
devoid of understanding and there it was all overgrown with thorns its surface
all overgrown with thorns its surface
all overgrown with thorns its surface was covered with Nettles its stone wall
was covered with Nettles its stone wall
was covered with Nettles its stone wall was broken down when I saw it I
was broken down when I saw it I
was broken down when I saw it I considered it will
considered it will
considered it will I looked on it and received instruction
I looked on it and received instruction
I looked on it and received instruction a little sleep a little slumber a little
a little sleep a little slumber a little
a little sleep a little slumber a little folding of the hands to rest so shall
folding of the hands to rest so shall
folding of the hands to rest so shall your poverty come like a prowler and
your poverty come like a prowler and
your poverty come like a prowler and your need like an armed man